{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20780\viewh17780\viewkind1
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Readme - RHex - Rich Miller,  19 February, 2019\
\
The RHex project was created to make realistic dynamic computer simulations of interest to both fly fishers and fly rod builders.  It was preceeded by the static Hexrod project of ???, which was itself is a computer updating of the historical hand calculations of ???.\
\
In its current form, RHex comprises two main programs, RHexCast and RHexSwing3D.  These programs allow very detailed user specification of the components.  The first simulates a complete aerial fly cast in two dimensions, following motion of the rod, line, leader, tippet and fly caused by a user-specified motion of the rod handle.  The second simulates the motion of the line, leader, tippet and fly, both in moving water and in still air, caused by a user-specified motion of the rod tip.  This simulation speaks to the common fishing technique of swinging streamers, but also is applicable to the drifting of nymphs.\
\
\pard\tx692\pardeftab692\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \CocoaLigature0 # DESCRIPTION:  RSwing is a graphical interface to a program that simulates the motion of a bamboo hex rod, line, leader, and fly during a cast.  The user sets parameters which specify the physical and dimensional properties of the above components as well as the time-motion of the rod handle, which is the ultimate driver of the cast.  The program outputs datafiles and cartoon images that show successive stop-action frames of the components.  Parameter settings may be saved and retrieved for easy project management.\
\
# XXXXX The only significant restriction on the simulation is that the cast is driven and plays out in a single 2-dimensional plane (typically vertical, representing a pure overhead cast).  In addition, the ambient air is assumed to be motionless.\
\
#  RSwing is meant to useful for both rod design and for understanding how changes in casting stroke result in different motions of the line and leader.  As in all numerical simulation, the utility is predicting behavior without actually having to build a physical rod, fashion a line and leader, or make casts on a windless day.  In principle, the simulation may be done to any degree of resolution and the integration carried out for any time interval.  However, computer speed sets practical limits.  Perhaps surprisingly, the rod is easy to resolve adequately; it is the line and leader motion that requires most of the computing resource.  Still, with even fairly slow machines and a little patience, you can get enlightening information.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs22 \cf0 \CocoaLigature1 \
\
}